# Levelz.app
---
## About
Levelz.app is a productivity web app that gamifies the concept of a todo list or task tracking app.
We try to help you reinforce good habits and level up your life.

Founded in June 2020 (by wforbes, wforbes87).

### What is this repo?
This is the source code for a web app found at [https://levelz.app](https://levelz.app) (and [https://lvlz.app](https://lvlz.app)). 
It's written with Vue.js v2, and a simple PHP v7.3 backend. We use the front-end UI library Vuetify which provides many of the UI components and we use Vue features like Vuex, Vue-Router, and others that you might find in a typical Vue app. We may use a PHP framework like Laravel in the future.

#### Directory Structure
The Vue.js source files are arranged loosely into a feature-based structure that groups the directories for each feature. If I have a feature called home, it would have it's own directory with it's store, model, components, and views together inside it. Here's a simple example:
~~~
src
|_app
  |_store
    |_appModule.js
  |_models
    |_Authorizer.js
  |_components
    |_AppBar.vue
    |_Footer.vue
  |_views
    |_App.vue
|_home
  |_store
    |_homeModule.js
  |_models
    |_NewsFeedItem.js
  |_components
    |_NewsFeed.vue
  |_views
    |_HomePage.vue
~~~

The PHP source files are arranged into namespace folders as described by the [PSR-4: Autoloader](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-4/) spec. The autoload() function in */api/src/Core/App.php* registers the composer autoloader from the */api/vendor* directory which is generated by the */api/composer.json* file's autoload object. At this time sub-namespaces aren't used.

Simple example:

~~~
src
|_Anything
  |_Anything.php
|_Something
  |_Something.php
~~~

Then allows you to:

```
<?php
namespace Something;
use Anything\Anything;
class Something {
  public function __construct() {
    $this->anything = new Anything();
...
```

These structure conventions are subject to change, but I'll try to keep this README updated accordingly.

---

## Development Roadmap

Here are some features I'm working on and a general roadmap for their completion for the rest of the year. I'll be utilizing Github.com's project tracking features to accomplish these:

### Launch Prototype (2020)

* [x] **Create Vue Project (June 2020)** - Get the Vue.js project set up!
  * [x] **App Runs On Local** _ Get the app running on localhost via vscode npm local web server, configure routes with history mode, and get a few pages started
  * [x] **App Hosted On Remote** - Get the app uploaded via ftp to the web host and properly serving, test for config bugs and do some prototyping. 
* [x] **Create PHP Project (June 2020)** - Get a core PHP project set up!
  * [x] **App Runs On Local** - Get the app serving from a XAMPP local web server, get the Vue app making successful requests to it (handle local CORS issues between localhost ports), and prototype some ideas.
  * [x] **App Runs On Remote** - Get the app uploaded via ftp to the web host and ensure the front end can make requests to the back-end!
* [X] **User Authentication (June 2020)** - Allow a user to create an account on the app, confirm their account via email, view a basic dashboard, and log in to thier account later
  * [x] **Signup Form** - Create a component that allows the User to sign up for a Lvlz account by securely transmitting data to the web server.
  * [X] **Create Database Entry** - Validate the User's new account info and store it on the database.
  * [ ] **Confirmation Emails** - Sending out a confirmation email when a new account is created that provides a link to confirm the account.
  * [X] **Login Form** - Create a component that allows people that have made an account to log in to it securely with their password.
* [ ] **Basic User Dashboard (July 2020)** - This dashboard should give controls to modify their information, add a profile picture, and provide links to other features that haven't been built yet like Activity, Notifications, Messages, and Friends. It should also include some UI for 'game' features like their Level, Experience Points, Vital Points, Statistics, Abilities, Spells, and Achievements.
  * [X] **Features Menu** - Create a component that provides links to all the Core Features of the app.
  * [ ] **Profile Picture Uploads** - Create a component that allows users to upload a profile picture to the app, delete their profile picture, and another component that displays their profile picture throughout the app
  * [ ] **Profile Information** - Create a component that allows users to add and update their basic profile information.
* [ ] **Prototype Core Features (December 2020)** - Create some barebones versions of the core features envisioned for the app.
  * [ ] **Activites Page/Component (July 2020)** - Prototype a simple Activities page that allows the user to create a simple Activity, add Actions to it, keeps track of previously made lists, and explore other parameters/returns.
  * [ ] **Task Page/Component (August 2020)** - Prototype a simple task tracker page that allows the user to define a task, add a description to it, create/assign Activities to it, and explore other associated features.
  * [ ] **Inventory Page (September 2020)** - Prototype a simple inventory management system which provides some tools for tracking a user's physical real world equipment and possessions, then coordinating their use with tasks and activities on the app.
  * [ ] **Achievement Page/Component (October 2020)** - Prototype an achievement page that allows the user to see the Rewards they've earned and are working on, define their own Rewards, and explore creating a Rewards component that can be displayed throughout the app.
  * [ ] **User Profile Page (November 2020)** - Prototype a User Profile page that displays information about the User to any visitor of the app, with the option to make some or all of it private. Information would include Profile Picture, Basic Profile Data, Tasks/Activities, Attributes, Achievements. Links to message or add as friend visible to other Users.
  * [ ] **Attributes Page (December 2020)** - Prototype a page that allows the User to define their own Attributes which serve as markers of progress in the completion of Achievements, Tasks and other activities on the app. Allow the user to assign Experience points, Vital points, Stats, Skills, Abilities, Spells and other custom metrics which will be displayed on their Dashboard, in their User Profile, and elsewhere on the app.
* [ ] **Additional Prototype Features (2021)** - Create some optional features and pages which bolster the core features and provide further post alpha possibilities.
  * [ ] **Friends Page/Components** - Prototype a Friends page that allows Users to add each other as friends, see a list of their current friends, remove friendships, block other Users.
  * [ ] **Messages Page/Components** - Prototype a Messages page that allows Users to send messages to each other, see a list of the message conversations with each friend with consideration to Friendships (list messages from friends seperately from non-friends), and explore associated features.
  * [ ] **Financials Page** - Prototype a simple budget management system which can assist the user with their spending and savings habits, providing savings goals, task budgets and an example of linking up to a bank API for real time account balance information.
  * [ ] **Travel Page** - Prototype a simple travel and explorating page which allows the user to plan and record their adventures into the big wide world out there.
  * [ ] **User Configuration Page** - Prototype a user accessible configuration page which provides controls for various settings across the app
  * [ ] **UI / UX Redesign** - Redesign the user interface of the app and give it an attractive, easy to use, user experience
* [ ] **Release Alpha Version (January 2022)** - Given all the lessons learned and insights gained throughout building core prototype features; Plan for the Alpha version of the app which provides a more streamlined, user friendly, enjoyable experience. This includes improving Activity, Rewards, and Social features - among other ideas gained through the prototyping process.
  * [ ] **Prototype Test Program (2022)** - Advertise the app a little, recruit people to test the app, get their bug reports and feedback, then work through coding all the issues and ideas they find.
  * [ ] **Forums (2022)** - Add a forum to the Levelz.app website which allows users to share their ideas, connect with each other outside of the app, and report bugs in a community setting.

---

### Open-Source Contributions and Involvement  

**Levelz.app is licensed under the GNU Public License v3.0 which you can read about [here](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html).**

Essentially, you are free to use, distribute, modify, or sell your own versions of this software - as long as that source remains Open! **We simply restrict the closed-source use of it**, and respectfully request that you notify us of where you use it and where your source can be found - by emailing [will@levelz.app](mailto:will@levelz.app) or reaching out to Will Forbes.

By making this repository public I'm aware that other developers or companies may use this source code to launch their own competing projects. While I would encourage you to please contribute to this project instead, partner with us, and combine our efforts, we understand if you don't. Just make sure you keep your source OPEN!

##### Free to use as a learning reference
This project has an aim to include an open source attitude toward user contributions. At any point you are free to fork or clone this project and use it as a reference to further your learning path. We strongly support young developers and creators in their career. This project's creator (wforbes) is happy to discuss any details with you. Message any time.

##### Contributing to the project
While right now our goal is to provide Levelz.app primarily as an online service, we're very interested in finding ways for our users to simply 'install' it to their web browser to make use of Levelz.app in an offline private capacity. This would be done by  persisting their own data via IndexedDB and snapshot style json flat-files, or other PWA tech.

That being the case, we realize that you may want to alter or change the app to your own liking if you've got the coding skills to do it. You may find a bug, or see a way to improve the app - we encourage you to make a Pull Request so we can check it out and incorporate it to our source!

Equally, you may be interested in becoming a regular contributor and joining our development team. Currently, Levelz.app is not monetized so our ability to pay you for your work is extremely limited. Any Pull Requests right now should be made with the spirit of Open-Source, and if your changes are merged in they will retain our Open-Source licensing indefinitely. With that said, small compensation isn't out of the question. I don't mind sending you $10 to treat you to a cup of coffee for your pull request :)

It is not our goal to benefit monetarily from the free work of others. When (or if) the time comes that we do become a monetized project/company, any open source contributors will be the first in line to benefit from this change with job interviews, job offers, or direct scaled reimbursement for your contributions. This also includes contributions of copy-writing, design concepts, or artwork - all of which can be sent to [will@levelz.app](mailto:will@levelz.app), if they aren't appropriate for a Pull Request.

Speaking as the founder of Lvlz: in the unlikely event that this project gains a following and community around it, I would like as many people to benefit as possible and let the community decide where the project goes. My interest in building Lvlz is to practice my coding skills and learn new development techniques, I have a day-job where I earn my living and I would only desire to transfer that day-job over to work on Lvlz full time and work to earn my fair share in whatever company that results!

Thanks for your interest in the project!
